In order to ensure the licensing of the code in this project is kept clear and
consistent, contributors must agree to the following Contributor License
Agreement ("CLA") in order for your code contributions to be accepted within the
main fork of the project. You are free to fork this project under the AGPL
version 3 and publish your changes to the world without signing this CLA,
however you will need to maintain your fork outside this main project.

Note that this agreement protects you by making it clear that you provide your
contribution without support or warranty. This agreement protects others by
making the patent and copyright license clear and explicit, and therefore making
it possible for ish to release the software under the AGPL license, protecting
those who then use the software.

You can indicate agreement with this CLA by adding your name to the bottom of
the contributor list below and creating a pull request on github with that
change. Please use the same git account as you use for your contributions.


Contributor License Agreement
-----------------------------

Definitions. "You" (or "Your") shall mean the copyright owner or legal entity
authorized by the copyright owner that is making this Agreement with ish group.

"Contribution" shall mean any original work of authorship, including any
modifications or additions to an existing work, that is intentionally submitted
by You to ish group for inclusion in, or documentation of, any of the products
owned or managed by ish group (the Work). For the purposes of this definition,
submitted means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent
to ish group or its representatives, including but not limited to communication
on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems, and issue tracking
systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, ish group for the purpose of
discussing and improving the Work, but excluding communication that is
conspicuously marked or otherwise designated in writing by You as Not a
Contribution.

Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this
Agreement, You hereby grant to ish group and to recipients of software
distributed by ish group a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge,
royalty-free, irrevocable copyright license to reproduce, prepare derivative
works of, publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute Your
Contributions and such derivative works.

Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement,
You hereby grant to ish group and to recipients of software distributed by ish
group a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free,
irrevocable (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have
made, use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work, where
such license applies only to those patent claims licensable by You that are
necessarily infringed by Your Contribution(s) alone or by combination of Your
Contribution(s) with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If
any entity institutes patent litigation against You or any other entity
(including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that your
Contribution, or the Work to which you have contributed, constitutes direct or
contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses granted to that
entity under this Agreement for that Contribution or Work shall terminate as of
the date such litigation is filed.

You represent that you are legally entitled to grant the above license. If your
employer(s) has rights to intellectual property that you create that includes
your Contributions, you represent that you have received permission to make
Contributions on behalf of that employer, that your employer has waived such
rights for your Contributions to ish group, or that your employer has executed a
separate Corporate CLA with ish group.

You represent that each of Your Contributions is Your original creation. You
represent that Your Contribution submissions include complete details of any
third-party license or other restriction (including, but not limited to, related
patents and trademarks) of which you are personally aware and which are
associated with any part of Your Contributions.

You are not expected to provide support for Your Contributions, except to the
extent You desire to provide support. You may provide support for free, for a
fee, or not at all. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
You provide Your Contributions on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR
CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied, including, without
limitation, any warranties or conditions of TITLE, NON- INFRINGEMENT,
MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

You agree to notify ish group of any facts or circumstances of which you become
aware that would make these representations inaccurate in any respect.



Contributors
------------

Ari Maniatis
Brad Wilson
Anatoliy Lysenko
Dzisyuk Elena
Nugi Nugraha
Ivan Dzyzenko
Lorenzo Manacorda
Juan Fernandez Hawa
Liu Fengyun
Andrew D. Ball
Luke Ring
Gergő Sulymosi
Bonaventura Fleischmann
Zsófia Balogh

The following people contributed to the project before the move to the AGPL
license. Their works are distributed under the MIT license.

Erlend Simonsen



Why is this necessary?
----------------------

ish group and Ari Maniatis have together invested tens of thousands of dollars
and thousands of hours of effort in bringing you jobsworth as a free, open
source project for the enjoyment of users everywhere. By taking copyright
assignments we make it possible to issue commerical licenses of jobsworth to
companies, generating a revenue stream and supporting the paid development costs
of the project.
