== Jobsworth Project Management

Welcome to the jobsworth project management, support ticketing and CRM system. This software is licensed under the AGPLv3.

Jobsworth can be used for helpdesk support ticketing, customer liasion, resource management (eg. systems and password tracking) and has a range of CRM type functionality. Plan your projects, see your schedule, know if you're slipping behind and why. Time Tracking and extensive reports help you show your clients exactly what you've done and for how long.

==== Features
* no restrictions or limits
* interactive gantt chart & scheduling
* flexible reporting
* tracks and indexes all changes
* notifications via email, rss & ical
* ldap integration
* accounting/billing system integration
* custom attributes
* inbound and outbound email integration
* sophisticated access control
* much much more

Further project details can be seen at [[Ohloh|https://www.ohloh.net/p/cit]].

=== Support

The primary support is through the [[mailing list|http://groups.google.com/group/jobsworth]] or if you have a bug report, [[create an issue|https://github.com/ari/jobsworth/issues]] in the tracker. If you want to write up details of a new feature you'd like to see, please use the [[wiki|https://github.com/ari/jobsworth/wiki]].


=== Contributing

Code contributions are welcome to this project and the best way to go about it is to fork the git repository:

  https://github.com/ari/jobsworth

Naturally, code contributions are much more valuable if they come with a good set of tests. Jobsworth already has very good test coverage and we intend to keep it that way. If you want your fork accepted by the main branch you will need to release your changes under both the AGPLv3 and the MIT licenses. The final jobsworth product is released only under the AGPLv3. This allows me to provide a commercial hosted solution to help fund the development efforts and keep the code open source.

If you aren't a developer you can still contribute. Look at the [[wiki|https://github.com/ari/jobsworth/wiki]] and help flesh out some new ideas, develop user interface concepts or sketch out functionality. User interface design is just as hard as coding, often harder and more important.


== Installing jobsworth on your server
=== Step 1: Getting the source.

The easiest way to get the source and easily update it from time to time is with git. You'll need to install that on your machine and then run:

  git clone git://github.com/ari/jobsworth.git

You will want to put the source somewhere sensible depending on your operating system. On OSX that might be ~/Sites/jobsworth and on FreeBSD /usr/local/www/jobsworth. We'll use the FreeBSD path in these instructions.

By default you are following the 'master' branch. Instead you might want to follow "dev" if you are working on the development of jobsworth. This branch will be frequently unstable and you should know quite a bit about Rails and jobsworth before you follow this one.

  git checkout -b origin/dev

Or you may wish to just stick with a particular release which will remain static, such as

  git checkout -b origin/v1.2

To go back to the 'master' branch which is the best for most people

  git checkout master


=== Step 2: Prerequsites

You need to be running some type of Unix: OSX, Linux, Solaris, BSD. Windows will probably not work. You will also need a database. MySQL is recommended. Postgresql may work.

Install the following packages:

* ruby 1.9.2 or ruby 1.8.x
* zip
* ImageMagick

How to install these will differ on each platform. Some possibilities:


==== FreeBSD with Ruby 1.9

  echo "RUBY_DEFAULT_VER=1.9" >> /etc/make.conf
  portmaster converters/ruby-iconv archivers/zip graphics/ImageMagick


==== OSX

First install the Macports system from http://www.macports.org. Then:

  sudo port install ruby19 ImageMagick

==== Linux, etc

Under other operating systems use your favourite package manager to ensure you have Ruby, rubygems, Rake and the Ruby mysql driver installed. Something like:

  yum install ruby19 ImageMagick zip

=== Step 3: Phusion Passenger

Install Phusion Passenger. You can instead use Mongrel, but it tends to be a little easier to set up with Phusion.

  gem install passenger
  passenger-install-apache2-module

And follow the instructions you'll be given about how to install the relevant config for Apache httpd.

Your Apache httpd virtual host DocumentRoot should point to the public directory in the installation directory.

  <VirtualHost *:80>
    ServerName jobsworth.example.com.au
    RailsEnv production
    PassengerHighPerformance on

    DocumentRoot /usr/local/www/jobsworth/public
    CustomLog /var/log/www/myserver.example.com.au-access_log combined
    ErrorLog /var/log/www/myserver.example.com.au-access_log
  </VirtualHost>

You'll need to allow access to the folder you specify if isn't already inside your global httpd DocumentRoot. And MultiViews is bad for a Rails application.

  <Directory /usr/local/www/jobsworth/public>
    AllowOverride All
    Options -MultiViews
    Order allow,deny
    Allow from all
  </Directory>


Naturally adjust the paths to suit your own environment.

  
=== Step 5: Ruby gems

First we need the Rails gem installation tool.

  gem install bundler

Then in order to install all the gems we need.

  cd /usr/local/www/jobsworth
  bundle install

If you have trouble on OSX with the mysql gem (this seems to be an issue on 10.5), then try this
  sudo env ARCHFLAGS="-arch i386" gem install mysql2 -- --with-mysql-include=/opt/local/include/mysql5 --with-mysql-lib=/opt/local/lib/mysql5 --with-mysql-config=/opt/local/lib/mysql5/bin/mysql_config


=== Step 4: Setup configuration and database

  ruby setup.rb


=== Step 7: Set up email receiving

When jobsworth sends outgoing emails for task updates, they will have a reply address which looks like this:

  task-1234@acme.domain.com.au
  
If a user hits reply to that email, you want it to go back and be appended to the task comments. It isn't hard, but you'll need a mail server you have some control over in order to get the magic to work. Firstly, let's look at that email address. To the left of the @ we have a designator showing which task this email is relevant to. On the right 'acme' represents the name of the company you set up when you ran the setup.rb script and first installed jobsworth. And the final 'domain.com.au' part is defined in the environment.local.rb file in your config folder.

You need to set up your email software to pass all incoming emails for *@acme.domain.com.au to a special script. That '*' means a wildcard: that is, any username at that hostname will be forwarded.

== Step 8: Finishing up

This gets the mail sending daemon working and ensures everything is clean up and up to date.

  sh update.rb
  

=== Sendmail

For example to configure sendmail, add an entry to /etc/mail/local-host-names for your hostname:

  acme.domain.com.au

Add an entry to /etc/mail/aliases to create an alias that will hand off emails to the mailman script

  jobsworth: "|/usr/local/www/jobsworth/script/rails runner -e production 'Mailman.receive(STDIN.read)'"

Add an entry to /etc/mail/virtusertable to redirect all emails to your domain to the above alias

  @domain.com        jobsworth

run "make; make restart" in /etc/mail

=== Communigate Pro

Communigate Pro puts it own headers on the top of each email which need to be stripped. A little script like this is dropped into /var/Communigate/Scripts and then added to the 'helpers' configuration with in the GUI. You'll need a rule inside Communigate to pass all email to the appropriate hostname to this script.

  #!/bin/sh

  RUBY=/usr/local/bin/ruby
  MAILSCRIPT="/usr/local/www/jobsworth/script/rails runner"

  # Strip the first 6 lines which are specific to Communigate
  /usr/bin/tail -n +7 $2 | ${RUBY} -W0 ${MAILSCRIPT} -e production 'Mailman.receive(STDIN.read)' > /dev/null

  exit 0;


== Upgrading to a newer revision

  sh update.rb
